---
layout: post
title: "Part-of-speech tagging"
description: "What's all the fuzz about.."
category: [NLP]
tags: [NLP, PoS]
---

### Gentle introduction
Many natural language processing task require the accurate assignment of Part-Of-Speach (POS) tags to the previously unseen text. What is POS exactly? In layman’s term one can  say, that Part-Of-Speech tagging is the process of tagging (no surprise here) a sequence of words with a particular part of speech. To be more explicit, let’s look at simple example. 

<!--more-->


Our task is to tag the following sentence: “The quick brown fox jumped over the lazy dog.”. Ideally, the result of PoS tagging should like something like this:
		
N | Token | Part of Speech tag
----------|:--------:|:---:
        1 | The    | DT
        2 | quick  | JJ
        3 | brown  | JJ
        4 | fox    | NN
        5 | jumped | VBD
        6 | over   | IN
        7 | the    | DT
        8 | lazy   | JJ
        9 | dog    | NN
       10 | .      | PERIOD       

It is as simple as that. 

The part-of-speech tags we used in this table generally follow the Brown/Penn tag sets.  Some part-of-speech tags frequently used for tagging English are presented below:

|   Tag  |             Part Of Speech            |
|:------:|:-------------------------------------:|
|   AT   |                article                |
|   DT   |               determiner              |
|   IN   |              preposition              |
|   JJ   |               adjective               |
|   NN   |         singular or mass noun         |
| PERIOD |                . : ? !                |
|   RB   |                 adverb                |
|   VB   |            verb, base form            |
|   VBD  |            verb, past tense           |

It's worth noting that in simplified grammars - such as those taught in primary school - there are generally only a few parts of speech (noun, verb, adjective, preposition, adverb, conjunction, etc.). However, contemporary language models are much richer, some of them are equipped with more than 47 word classes. 

### [PoS (What Is It Good For?)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=01-2pNCZiNk)
For starters, the part of speech for a word gives a significant amount of information about the word and its neighbors. This additional knowledge may be useful in statistical machine translation or speech recognition. For example the word *above* can be either adverb, adjective, preposition or noun and depending on  the word class it belongs to, it can be pronounced differently. Such information could be used in speech synthesis to achieve natural-sounding pronunciation. 
Addtionaly part of speach can also be uded in information retrival for quickly finding names. 

In the following post in this series we will take a closer look at the mathematical models underlying PoS taggers. 